Add EIP: Elected block proposer has not been slashed (#6988)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6987.md

---

> eip: 6987

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 6988
```
EIP numbers are assigned by EIP editors and are generally the PR number which would make this EIP6988.  There isn't an issue or PR 6987 that I can see.

title: Slashed validator cannot be elected as a block proposer
description: Prevents a slashed validator from being elected as a block proposer
author: Mikhail Kalinin (@mkalinin)
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-05-04
---

## Abstract

> Introduces a modificaiton to the consensus layer specification which ensures that slashed validator cannot be elected as block proposer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduces a modification to the consensus layer specification which ensures that slashed validator cannot be elected as block proposer.
```
Typo

## Motivation

> A block proposed by a slashed validator is invalidated by the corresponding check in the [`phase0/process_block_header`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/3115d1140b23dd4c9c23fbd9e2428186cf816bde/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#block-header) function as it is defined in the consensus layer specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A block proposed by a slashed validator is rejected by a corresponding validation check in the [`phase0/process_block_header`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/3115d1140b23dd4c9c23fbd9e2428186cf816bde/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#block-header) function as it is defined in the consensus layer specification.
```

> At the same time the definition of the [`phase0/compute_proposer_index`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/3115d1140b23dd4c9c23fbd9e2428186cf816bde/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#compute_proposer_index) allows for a slashed validator to be elected as a proposer. This contradiction may effectively lead to an empty slot if a block is supposed to be proposed by a slahed validator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the same time the definition of the [`phase0/compute_proposer_index`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/3115d1140b23dd4c9c23fbd9e2428186cf816bde/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#compute_proposer_index) allows for a slashed validator to be elected as a proposer. This contradiction effectively leads to an empty slot if a block is supposed to be proposed by a slashed validator.
```

An impact of the proposed fix in the case of a single slashing on Ethereum Mainnet is negligible, while it becomes significant in the case of correlated slashings. For instance, a correlated slashing of `1/10th` of a validator set can lead to `1/10th` of missed proposals during a number of epochs after the slashing.

## Specification

The proposed change is specified in [the consensus layer specification](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/82cd2f1f2317f664b7e179acdd898a327e1fe77e/specs/deneb/beacon-chain.md#modified-compute_proposer_index).

> _TODO: move specification to `/_features` and provide a link._

Reviewer 2: noting TODO for tracking purposes
